README.md, before:

# *Exploiting Instruction-Following Retrievers for Malicious Information Retrieval*

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/McGill-NLP/malicious-ir/blob/main/LICENSE)

This work studies the ability of retrievers to fulfill malicious queries, both when used *directly* and when used in a *retrieval augmented generation*-based setup. We find that given malicious requests, most retrievers can (for >50% of queries) select relevant harmful passages.
We further uncover an emerging risk with instruction-following retrievers, where highly relevant harmful information can be surfaced through fine-grained instructions.
Finally, we show that even safety-aligned LLMs, such as *Llama3*, can produce harmful responses when provided with harmful retrieved passages in-context.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/41b7e800-3e20-4e79-9a8d-a7de471ef8f1" width="100%" alt="Malicious-IR_figure1"/>
</p>

This repository includes code and data for reproducing our results and analysis.
## Installation
We need two separate environments for recent LLMs' generations and retrieval.
```bash
conda env create --name ret --file=retrieval_environments.yml

conda env create --name llm --file=vllm_environments.yml
```

## Getting Started
Our analysis consists of XXX general steps: corpus generation, corpus embedding, and retrieval inference. We go into more details for our further analysis below.

### 1. Corpus Generation
The first step includes generating the malicious passages for [AdvBench](https://github.com/llm-attacks/llm-attacks/blob/main/data/advbench/harmful_behaviors.csv) queries (i.e., **AdvBench-IR**). You can find the generated samples in [data/malicious.jsonl](data/malicious.jsonl) or on [HuggingFace](). Checkout the [create_demonstration.sh](scripts/create_demonstration.sh) script for the detailed and exact arguments. This script will generate and chunk the malicious passages for retrieval.

```bash
python generate_malicious_passages.py \
    --template_name "PsgWiki" \
    --extract_title \
    --model_name_or_path "mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2" \
    --data_file_path <address of the AdvBench queries>
```

### 2. Corpus Embedding
For a more real-world retrieval, we combine the malicious passages with the benign [DPR's Wikipedia retrieval corpus](https://github.com/facebookresearch/DPR/blob/main/dpr/data/download_data.py) which can be downloaded from [this link](https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/dpr/wikipedia_split/psgs_w100.tsv.gz).
Subsequently, we generate embeddings for the new retrieval corpus. Note that this step takes long, and you might want to run the code in multiple GPUs for different shards of the data. Checkout the [generate_embeddings.sh](scripts/generate_embeddings.sh) script for the detailed and exact arguments, and to see how to correctly combine the malicious and benign corpora. This script will generate embeddings for the retrieval corpus shards.
```bash
python generate_embeddings.py \
    --encoder_class_name "nv" \
    --encoder_name "nvidia/NV-Embed-v2" \
    --encoder_type "ctx" \
    --ctx_src <address of the retrieval corpus> \
    --shard_id <shard_id from 0 to 7> \
    --num_shards 8 \
    --out_file <dir of the corpus embeddings>/embed
```

### 3. Retrieval Inference
This step includes running the inference for the malicious AdvBench-IR dataset. Checkout the [retrieve.sh](scripts/retrieve.sh) script for the detailed and exact arguments.

```bash
python retrieve.py \
    --encoder_class_name "nv" \
    --encoder_name "nvidia/NV-Embed-v2" \
    --encoder_type "q" \
    --out_file <address of the output> \
    --qa_dataset <address of the AdvBench-IR samples> \
    --encoded_ctx_files <dir of the corpus embeddings>/embed_*_vec \
    --eval_unsafety 1 \
    --relevant_idx <address of the correct passage mappings, i.e., one of the outputs of the step 1> \
    --malicious_prefix <id prefix of the malicious corpus> \
    --ctx_sources <address of the retrieval corpus>
```

You can run the inference on benign datasets using the same script, but without the malicious arguments (e.g., `--eval_unsafety`, `--relevant_idx`, and `--malicious_prefix`). You can download TriviaQA and NaturalQuestions test samples from [DPR's repository](https://github.com/facebookresearch/DPR/blob/main/dpr/data/download_data.py) (`nq-test.qa.csv` and `trivia-test.qa.csv`).

## Fine-Grained Query Analysis


## Retrieval-Augmented Generation Analysis
After performing steps 1-to-3, we can perform a RAG-based QA and evaluate the harmfulness of the LLMs' responses.
To do so, you can checkout the [qa_with_retrieval.sh](scripts/qa_with_retrieval.sh) script. The following script will generate the responses for the queries.
```bash
python qa_with_rag.py \
    --model_name_or_path "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct" \
    --template_name "QA" \
    --data_file_path <address of the output from step 3> \
    --malicious_prefix <id prefix of the malicious corpus> \
    --num_docs <number of retrieved passages>
```

The following script will further evaluate the generated responses.
```bash
python evaluate_qa_response_safety.py \
    --model_name_or_path "meta-llama/Llama-Guard-3-8B" \
    --response_file_path <address of the previous step responses> \
    --eval_file_path <address of the evaluation results file> \
```

Commit message:

Added fine-grained analysis to the README.

README.md, after:

# *Exploiting Instruction-Following Retrievers for Malicious Information Retrieval*

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://github.com/McGill-NLP/malicious-ir/blob/main/LICENSE)

This work studies the ability of retrievers to fulfill malicious queries, both when used *directly* and when used in a *retrieval augmented generation*-based setup. We find that given malicious requests, most retrievers can (for >50% of queries) select relevant harmful passages.
We further uncover an emerging risk with instruction-following retrievers, where highly relevant harmful information can be surfaced through fine-grained instructions.
Finally, we show that even safety-aligned LLMs, such as *Llama3*, can produce harmful responses when provided with harmful retrieved passages in-context.

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/41b7e800-3e20-4e79-9a8d-a7de471ef8f1" width="100%" alt="Malicious-IR_figure1"/>
</p>

This repository includes code and data for reproducing our results and analysis.
## Installation
We need two separate environments for recent LLMs' generations and retrieval.
```bash
conda env create --name ret --file=retrieval_environments.yml

conda env create --name llm --file=vllm_environments.yml
```

## Getting Started
Our analysis consists of XXX general steps: corpus generation, corpus embedding, and retrieval inference. We go into more details for our further analysis below.

### 1. Corpus Generation
The first step includes generating the malicious passages for [AdvBench](https://github.com/llm-attacks/llm-attacks/blob/main/data/advbench/harmful_behaviors.csv) queries (i.e., **AdvBench-IR**). You can find the generated samples in [data/malicious.jsonl](data/malicious.jsonl) or on [HuggingFace](). Checkout the [create_demonstration.sh](scripts/create_demonstration.sh) script for the detailed and exact arguments. This script will generate and chunk the malicious passages for retrieval.

```bash
python generate_malicious_passages.py \
    --template_name "PsgWiki" \
    --extract_title \
    --model_name_or_path "mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2" \
    --data_file_path <address of the AdvBench queries>
```

### 2. Corpus Embedding
For a more real-world retrieval, we combine the malicious passages with the benign [DPR's Wikipedia retrieval corpus](https://github.com/facebookresearch/DPR/blob/main/dpr/data/download_data.py) which can be downloaded from [this link](https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/dpr/wikipedia_split/psgs_w100.tsv.gz).
Subsequently, we generate embeddings for the new retrieval corpus. Note that this step takes long, and you might want to run the code in multiple GPUs for different shards of the data. Checkout the [generate_embeddings.sh](scripts/generate_embeddings.sh) script for the detailed and exact arguments, and to see how to correctly combine the malicious and benign corpora. This script will generate embeddings for the retrieval corpus shards.
```bash
python generate_embeddings.py \
    --encoder_class_name "nv" \
    --encoder_name "nvidia/NV-Embed-v2" \
    --encoder_type "ctx" \
    --ctx_src <address of the retrieval corpus> \
    --shard_id <shard_id from 0 to 7> \
    --num_shards 8 \
    --out_file <dir of the corpus embeddings>/embed
```

### 3. Retrieval Inference
This step includes running the inference for the malicious AdvBench-IR dataset. Checkout the [retrieve.sh](scripts/retrieve.sh) script for the detailed and exact arguments.

```bash
python retrieve.py \
    --encoder_class_name "nv" \
    --encoder_name "nvidia/NV-Embed-v2" \
    --encoder_type "q" \
    --out_file <address of the output> \
    --qa_dataset <address of the AdvBench-IR samples> \
    --encoded_ctx_files <dir of the corpus embeddings>/embed_*_vec \
    --eval_unsafety 1 \
    --relevant_idx <address of the correct passage mappings, i.e., one of the outputs of the step 1> \
    --malicious_prefix <id prefix of the malicious corpus> \
    --ctx_sources <address of the retrieval corpus>
```

You can run the inference on benign datasets using the same script, but without the malicious arguments (e.g., `--eval_unsafety`, `--relevant_idx`, and `--malicious_prefix`). You can download TriviaQA and NaturalQuestions test samples from [DPR's repository](https://github.com/facebookresearch/DPR/blob/main/dpr/data/download_data.py) (`nq-test.qa.csv` and `trivia-test.qa.csv`).

## Fine-Grained Query Analysis
Use the [scripts/instruction_analysis/create_encode_retrieve_for_topic.sh](scripts/instruction_analysis/create_encode_retrieve_for_topic.sh) script to analyze the impact of fine-grained queries on selecting specific passages about `bombs`. Moreover, you can use [scripts/instruction_analysis/create_encode_retrieve_for_unique_queries.sh](scripts/instruction_analysis/create_encode_retrieve_for_unique_queries.sh) script to generate additional passages and their corresponding fine-grained queries, generating embedding for them, and finally perform the retrieval inference. In short, the new two steps specific to this section are as follows.

The following script, will generate `<num_docs>` passages for each [unique and diverse queries of AdvBench](https://github.com/RICommunity/TAP/blob/main/data/advbench_subset.csv).
```bash
python -m instruction_analysis.create_malicious_demonstrations \
    --template_name "FineWiki" \
    --extract_title \
    --model_name_or_path "mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2" \
    --num <num_docs> \
    --data_file_path <address of the diverse queries>
```
In addition, the following script generates fine-grained queries for the previously generated passages.
```bash
python -m instruction_analysis.create_finegrained_instructions \
    --name "instruction_demonstration" \
    --template_name "Fine" \
    --model_name_or_path "mistralai/Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2" \
    --num <num_docs> \
    --data_file_path <address of the previously generated passages>
```
Note that the other steps (i.e., combining the new corpus with the original retrieval corpus, generating the embeddings for the corpus, and performing the inference) is as before. There are only two main points:
1. Since re-generating the embeddings for the benign Wikipedia corpus takes a long time, you can generate embeddings for the newly generated passages, and `cp` the generated embeddings for the retrieval corpus (i.e., out of step 2) to the directory where the new passages' representations are saved. This way, the retrieval inference will happen on the combined corpus. Checkout [the script](scripts/instruction_analysis/create_encode_retrieve_for_unique_queries.sh) for more details.
2. You can use the fine-grained queries in retrieval with passing `--instruction_key "specific_instruction"` in the `retrieve.py` arguments. Again, please checkout [the script](scripts/instruction_analysis/create_encode_retrieve_for_unique_queries.sh) for more details.

## Retrieval-Augmented Generation Analysis
After performing steps 1-to-3, we can perform a RAG-based QA and evaluate the harmfulness of the LLMs' responses.
To do so, you can checkout the [qa_with_retrieval.sh](scripts/qa_with_retrieval.sh) script. The following script will generate the responses for the queries.
```bash
python qa_with_rag.py \
    --model_name_or_path "meta-llama/Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct" \
    --template_name "QA" \
    --data_file_path <address of the output from step 3> \
    --malicious_prefix <id prefix of the malicious corpus> \
    --num_docs <number of retrieved passages>
```

The following script will further evaluate the generated responses.
```bash
python evaluate_qa_response_safety.py \
    --model_name_or_path "meta-llama/Llama-Guard-3-8B" \
    --response_file_path <address of the previous step responses> \
    --eval_file_path <address of the evaluation results file> \
```
